The horses' notions of Nozdryov also seemed to be unadvantageous: not only the
bay and Assessor, but even the dapple-gray was out of spirits. Though it always
fell to his lot to get the worst oats, and Selifan never poured them into his
trough without first saying: "Eh, you scoundrel!"—still they were oats and
not mere hay, he chewed them with pleasure and often shoved his long muzzle 
into his comrades' troughs to have a taste of what they got for vittles,
especially when Selifan was not in the stable, but now just hay—that was not
nice; everyone was displeased.

But soon all the displeased were interrupted amid their outpourings in a sudden
and quite unexpected way. Everyone, not excluding the coachman himself,
recollected and recovered themselves only when a coach and six came galloping
down on them and they heard, almost over their heads, the cries of the ladies
sitting in the coach, the curses and threats of the other coachman: "Ah, you 
knave, didn't I shout out to you: keep right, gawker! Are you drunk, or what?" 
Selifan felt himself at fault, but since a Russian man does not like to admit 
before another that he is to blame, he at once uttered, assuming a dignified 
air: "And what are you a-galloping like that for? Pawned your eyes in a 
pot-house?" After which he started backing the britzka up, so as to free it 
from the other's harness, but nothing doing, it all got into a tangle. The 
dapple-gray sniffed curiously at his new friends, who ended up on either 
side of him. Meanwhile, the ladies sitting in the coach looked at it all with 
an expression of fear on their faces. One was an old lady, the other a young 
girl, a sixteen-year-old, with golden hair quite artfully and prettily 
smoothed back on her small head. Her lovely face was rounded like a fresh egg, 
and resembled one when, white with a sort of transparent whiteness, fresh, 
only just laid, it is held up by the housekeeper's dark-skinned hand to be 
checked in the light and the rays of the shining sun pass through it; her thin 
little ears were also transparent, aglow with the warm light coming through 
them. That, and the fright on her parted, motionless lips, and the tears in 
her eyes—it was all so pretty in her that our hero gazed at her for several 
minutes, paying no attention to the tumult that was going on among the horses 
and coachmen. "Back off, will you, you Nizhni Novgorod gawk!" the other 
coachman was shouting. Selifan pulled at the reins, the other coachman did the 
same, the horses backed up a little, then lurched into each other again, 
having stepped over the traces. In these circumstances, the dapple-gray took 
such a liking to his new acquaintance that he did not want at all to leave the 
rut to which the unforeseen fates had brought him, and, resting his muzzle on 
the neck of his new friend, seemed to be whispering right into his ear, 
probably some terrible nonsense, because the other horse was ceaselessly 
twitching his ears.